>> Brian Holt: Now we kind of
have our bare bones set up here.
So let's actually start
writing some React cuz so
far we have,
this is not a very good intro to React.
So here inside of my
complete intro to React,
I'm going to create a new file and
it's going to be called Index.html.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, I'm gonna put
the bare bones for our HTML document.
>> Brian Holt: html:5, so
I'm using something called Emmet.
Which is kind of outside the scope
of this class but it's super useful.
It used to be called Zen Coding.
It's just like a bunch of shortcuts for
writing HTML really fast.
Which is how I scaffolded that out.
Okay, we’re gonna create a file and
I’m gonna call it svideo.
That’s what I named my little app here.
>> Brian Holt: You can call your video
app whatever you want to call it.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
here we’re going to put a div, and
it's id is going to be called app.
>> Brian Holt: And
then we're gonna do two things right here.
We're gonna put two script tags.
One of them is going to be equal to,
>> Brian Holt:
node_modules/react/dist/react.js.
So we're gonna be pulling in
the pre-bundled React file, so
that we can play with it without
doing any sort of bundling.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and then the other
thing we're gonna do is we're gonna do
another script tag.
>> Brian Holt:
node_modules/react-dom/dist/react-dom.js.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
here's a big key about React here.
So I imagine a lot of you have heard of
things like React Native, and React VR,
iframe React, I'm missing,
there's a bunch of them, right?
So you can think of React being
kinda split into two parts.
Meaning if you're gonna use React,
you're always gonna have to
require two different libraries.
There's the top level React part, which is
the same across React Native, ReactDOM,
React everything.
This is the library where we
actually create components.
And it has, like, the life cycle methods,
it has all of these different things
that you, as a developer, interact with.
And then between React and
whatever you're rendering to,
there sits a glue layer, right?
That translates React
components to DOM nodes, or
to native UI elements, right?
So that's what React Native is,
that's what ReactDOM is, right?
It's these different glue layers,
the rendering layers, right?
So we're gonna actually be coding
with React but at the very end,
we'll pulling ReactDOM to actually
render out to the DOM, right?
So that's why there are two
separate libraries.
It used to be the same thing
up until like React.12, maybe.
Don't quote me on that.
Okay, so underneath that
we're gonna do a script tag.
So when we pull these in,
react and react-dom,
it's gonna make them available as
a global variable that we can refer to.
So now we have react and react-dom.
So the first thing we're
gonna do is we're gonna
say const MyFirstComponent, and
it's gonna just be a function.
>> Brian Holt: And we're gonna say return
React.createElement ('div', null).
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and then I'm gonna
do some kind of funky spacing here.
But it'll make sense in
a moment why I did that.
Then here I'm gonna say,
React.createElement('h1',
null, 'this is my first component'), or
whatever you wanna render out.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
>> Brian Holt: Then
down here at the bottom, I’m gonna say,
ReactDOM.render,
>> Brian Holt: And we're gonna say,
React.createElement,
>> Brian Holt: MyFirstComponent.
And then we're gonna
tell it where to render.
So in this case, we want it to
render up here in the app id.
So we're gonna say
document.getElementById('app').
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
>> Brian Holt: So
I'll explain it momentarily, but
let's go and
make sure that it actually works.
So I'm just gonna literally just
open the file with my browser.
Eventually, we'll get to serving
with a server, whatever, but
this will work for now.
>> Brian Holt: Let's see,
so I need to go to talks,
nope, FDM, there we go, Index.html.
>> Brian Holt: And you can see here,
it says this is my first component, right?
>> Brian Holt: This is React
at its most base level.
And that's all you're gonna
learn in this workshop.
So wrap it up, we're done.
Just kidding, well, I mean, sort of.
>> Brian Holt: No, I'm kidding.
[LAUGH] Okay, so
let's talk about what's going on here.
>> Brian Holt: So here we're
creating a React component, right?
This is MyFirstComponent, right?
What you can think of as like
a blueprint for creating new components.
Or for those of you who like
the Java-y classy object orientedness,
this is a class, right?
And we can create many
instances of this class.
So we have created a reusable component
here that every time that we render
it out, so
if I inspect this element right here,
>> Brian Holt: You
can see here there's a div and
an h1, right?
So every time that I create a new
like stamp, a new instance of this
MyFirstComponent, right, it's going to
render out this particular bit of markup.
Now this isn't really super
interesting right now, right?
Like it's really just a div and a h1.
It would been of way easier to just
me going in here and say, okay,
I'm gonna put a div right here, right?
But where's the fun in that?
I wanted to over engineer it.
No, hopefully this is indicative to
you that at its most base layers,
there's not really a lot to React.
The hello world of React is what?
This is gonna be ten lines of code.
>> Brian Holt: So let's go in and
talk about React.createElement then.
Okay, so this function right
here is a class, right?
It's the MyFirstComponent class.
createElement is creating a particular
element of something, right?
So I'm creating one div instance.
I'm not creating a new type of div,
this is just rendering out a div, right?
Same thing here with this h1.
Then here, I call createElement,
same thing right here,
I'm creating an instance
of MyFirstComponent, right?
>> Brian Holt: So I could create
another component which renders out yet
more MyFirstComponents, right?
So they can be, components can be
composed of other components as well.
>> Brian Holt: Any questions
about this example so far?
>> Brian Holt: Not super useful yet,
but we're getting to the useful part,
I promise.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so let's actually
go create another type of component.
>> Brian Holt: So I'm gonna create
another one called MyTitle.
So const MyTitle,
it's gonna be another function.
>> Brian Holt: And what this is going to
do is this is going to return more markup.
>> Brian Holt: So we're gonna say,
react.createElement('div',
null,
>> Brian Holt: And
we're gonna say,
React.createElement('h1', 'h2').
So something that you might be
noting here, if I pass it a string,
it's actually going to render
out that sort of tag, right?
It's not even really gonna keep
track of what it is, right?
I could put x-my-component, and it would
render out an x-my-component tag, right?
So this also works with web components,
if you wanna go down that path.
If I pass it like a variable name like
this, right, MyFirstComponent, it's not
a string it's MyFirstComponent, it's
actually going to render out that, it's
going to assume that's a React component
and try and render it out that way.
>> Brian Holt: And
this is gonna be my second component.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then we're gonna modify this down here.
What's cool about this
is,
>> Brian Holt: createElement, so I'm gonna
put a MyTitle in here, right, but I can
actually put multiple MyTitles in here.
>> Brian Holt: So for those of you that
like the computer science-y terms,
createElement has variable-arity, right?
So you can give it as many
parameters as you want.
That's all that that stupid term means.
[LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so
we're gonna be creating
multiple instances of MyTitle.
The other thing that you can do with
this is you can give it an array.
>> Brian Holt: You can give it an array
of React instead of elements, right?
Right now this isn't super important.
They kind of look the same.
But this will become important
later in the course.
So just keep in mind that you can
also pass it arrays of components.
>> Brian Holt: So let's go try and
make sure that that works.
>> Brian Holt: And you can see here I
got a bunch of instances of my second
component.